Sprint 1
IOT based Home Automation System

IOT Based Home Automation

Define your product mission:
To create an Application that controls the functionality and also monitors appliances without human involvement. The main goal is to automate every appliance that can be automated and to develop an interface that is hassle-free. This study suggests a novel home automation method that makes use of IOT to address these difficulties, thereby reducing their current severity and enhancing the smartness and security of home automation.

 
Literature Review:

Design and Implementation of IoT- Based Automation System for Smart Home		proposed a low-cost Wi-Fi based automation system for Smart Home (SH) in order to remotely monitor and control home appliances by using Android based application. An Arduino Mega microcontroller is bringing with Wi-Fi module is utilized to build the automation system.
A Privacy Preserving Communication Protocol for IoT Applications in Smart Homes		proposed a data transmissions within the SHS are secured by a symmetric encryption scheme with secret keys being generated by chaotic systems. The incorporate message authentication codes to the scheme guarantees data integrity and authenticity. 
IoT Based Smart Security and Home Automation System		proposed the system consists of microcontroller used in the existing prototype is the TICC3200 Launch pad board comes with an embedded microcontroller and an on board Wi-Fi shield make use of all the electrical appliances inside the home can be controlled and managed.
IoT based Smart Home Design using Power and Security Management		The proposed system works on real time monitoring and voice control, so that the electrical devices and switches can be remotely controlled and monitored with or without an android based app. Various sensors are used to not only observe the real time device tracking but also maintaining the security of the house.
IoT based Monitoring and Control System for Home Automation		proposed the communication with home automation network through an Internet gateway, by means of low power communication protocols like Zigbee, Wi-Fi etc. The system aims at controlling home appliances via Smartphone using Wi-Fi as communication protocol and raspberry pi as server system.
Home Automation and Security System		This research paper has detailed information on Home Automation and Security System using Arduino, GSM and how we can control home appliances using Android application. Whenever a person will enter into the house then the count of the number of persons entering in the house will be incremented, in Home Automation mode applicances will be turned on whereas in security light will be turned on along with the alarm.
Customary homes to smart homes using internet of things (IoT) and mobile application		The proposed system uses an Android application to control and monitor appliances, temperature, motion, and gases in the home environment, which is carried out via a satellite station and a radio frequency transceiver. Data generated by sensors are stored on the ThingSpeak cloud platform.


Define MVP:
INPUT : Command or Control
OUTPUT : Functionality

As a User, I want to input a command or control and I want the corresponding functionality.


Features comparison for home automation system published in the past few years

PAPERS	COMMUNICATION	CONTROLLER	APPLICATION
Real time smart home automation based on PIC microcontroller, Bluetooth and Android technology	Bluetooth	PIC	control indoor appliances
Smart home automation system using Bluetooth technology	Bluetooth	Arduino	control appliances indoor and outdoor, within short range
Smart Home Automation Control Using Bluetooth and GSM	Bluetooth, GSM	PIC	control appliances indoor and outdoor
 A smart home system based on sensor technology	Bluetooth, Wi-Fi	Raspberry PI	control indoor appliances
A Smart Home Automation technique with Raspberry Pi using IoT	Ethernet	Raspberry PI	control home appliances, surveillance



Components Required:
●	Raspberry Pi
●	Microphone
●	Speaker
●	Relay 
●	Jumper wires

Raspberry Pi:
Raspberry Pi is a low cost, small size computer that runs on Linux OS. Raspberry Pi is used as the local web server and its General-Purpose Input/Output (GPIO) pins are controlled through a simple webpage.

Microphone:
It is not essential to utilize an additional preamplifier circuit in our project because the USB microphone we are utilizing does this exact (A/D) operation and has an integrated amplifier. Therefore, we can link it to a computer and in our instance, a Raspberry Pi, immediately utilizing a USB microphone.

Speaker:
The speaker works on the same mechanism as a microphone but in reverse. A microphone converts the sound waves to electrical signals while the speaker converts the electrical signals to soundwaves. Here, we are going to use a 3.5 mm jack pin to connect the speaker to our raspberry pi. The speaker shown below has an AUX option, you can use any speaker that works with raspberry pi.

Relay:
Relay allows one circuit to switch another circuit while they are separated. Relay is used when we want to use a low voltage circuit to turn ON and OFF the device which required high voltage for its operation. For example, 5V supply connected to the relay is sufficient to drive the bulb operated on 230V AC mains. 

Work to be Done(Sprint 2):
1.Gathering all required components for the project.
2.Connecting USB Microphone with Raspberry Pi: Need to find whether the microphone is compatible with the raspberry pi and program it accordingly.
3.Libraries required for Speech Recognition on Raspberry Pi
4.Raspberry Pi Speech Recognition Program
5.Controlling AC Loads through Voice Commands on Pi







